readme.md, before:

# Using NLP to fuel library discovery

This is an experimental project to discover ways that natural language processing can provide different forms of discovery for library collections, workshops, and events.

The initial version attempts to surface relevant workshops on various types of catalog and Libraries' website pages, beyond the limitations of existing keyword searches.

## Running the project code

The project currently manages libraries and virtual environments with [`poetry`](https://python-poetry.org/).

After you've cloned this repository, run `poetry install` to install dependencies into a new virtual environment.

Analysis code using `spaCy` requires an installed language model. For the current code, which uses v2 of `spaCy`, install the large English language model. Within an activated virtual environment, run `python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg`.

The project uses Jupyter notebooks. `poc.ipynb` is a running experimentation file. As chunks settle, they'll be abstracted out into individual notebooks or scripts. `data.ipynb` is one example, which covers downloading json data from a Drupal endpoint for Libraries workshops, and doing a bit of cleaning before writing to a dated csv file.

## Key libraries

If you prefer to use different virtualenv and depedency management libraries/approaches, here are the main Python libraries we're using:

- `pandas`
- `requests`
- `spacy` - use 2.x version for now so that `textacy` works.
- `textacy`
- `transformers`

Commit message:

Update readme to cover requirements for streamlit app

readme.md, after:

# Using NLP to fuel library discovery

This is an experimental project to discover ways that natural language processing and machine learning can provide different forms of discovery for library collections, workshops, and events.

The initial version attempts to surface relevant workshops on various types of catalog and Libraries' website pages, beyond the limitations of existing keyword searches.

## Running the project code

The project currently manages libraries and virtual environments with [`poetry`](https://python-poetry.org/).

After you've cloned this repository, run `poetry install` to install dependencies into a new virtual environment.

Analysis code using `spaCy` requires an installed language model. For the current code, which uses v2 of `spaCy`, install the large English language model. Within an activated virtual environment, run `python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg`.

The project uses Jupyter notebooks. `poc.ipynb` is a running experimentation file. As chunks settle, they'll be abstracted out into individual notebooks or scripts. `data.ipynb` is one example, which covers downloading json data from a Drupal endpoint for Libraries workshops, and doing a bit of cleaning before writing to a dated csv file.

## Key libraries

If you prefer to use different virtualenv and depedency management libraries/approaches, here are the main Python libraries we're using:

- `pandas`
- `requests`
- `spacy` - use 2.x version for now so that `textacy` works.
- `textacy`
- `transformers`

The Streamlit app for exploring the textual data uses `spacy-streamlit`, which requires `spacy` >= 3. The current `requirements.txt` file reflects the virtual environment for the Streamlit app. This is a hacky approach, but given the different dependency requirements, useful until we refactor the code to not use `textacy` or that library is updated to `spacy` 3.
